[DI] Start drafting new route system docs (#21867)
backstage/backstage: docs/frontend-system/architecture/07-routes.md

> **NOTE: The new frontend system is in alpha and is only supported by a small number of plugins.**

## Introduction

> In Backstage, plug-in boundaries and connections must be clearly defined. The app should allow navigation between plug-ins while isolating faults within them.
> 
> In order to address the problem outlined above, we introduced the concept of `RouteRef` which enables us route between pages in a flexible way, and it is especially important when bringing together different open source plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Backstage plugin is an isolated piece of functionality that doesn't typically communicate directly with other plugins. In order to achieve this, there are many parts of the frontend system that provide a layer of indirection for cross-plugin communication, and they routing system is one of them.

The Backstage routing system makes it possible to implement navigation across plugin boundaries, without each individual plugin knowing the concrete path or location of other plugins in the routing hierarchy, or even its own. This is achieved through the concept of route references, which are opaque reference values that can be shared and used to create concrete links to different parts of an app.
```

Iterating a bit more on this intro, let me know what you think

## Route References

A `RouteRef` is an abstract path in a Backstage app, and these paths can be configured both at plugin level (by plugin developers) and at the app level (by integrators).

Plugin developers create a `RouteRef` to expose a path in Backstage's routing system. You will see below how routes are defined programmatically, but before diving into code, let us explain how to configure them at app level. In spite of the fact that plugin developers choose a default route path for the routes their plugin provides, paths are configurable, so app integrators can set a custom path to a route whenever they like to (more information in the following sections).

There are 3 types of route references: regular route, sub route, and external route, and we will cover both the concept and code definition for each.

### Creating a Route Reference

Route references, also known as "absolute" or "regular" routes, are created as follows:

> ```tsx title="plugins/catalog/src/routes.ts" showLineNumbers

Author: I was thinking that line numbers help to mention some specific lines in the documentation text. But I agree that if we don't mention the line numbers in the text, it doesn't help much to have the lines, but I think it doesn't hurt either. Anyway, I'll get rid of them 🙂

import { createRouteRef } from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';

// Creates a route reference, which is not yet associated with any plugin page
export const indexRouteRef = createRouteRef();
```

Note that you often want to create the route references themselves in a different file than the one that creates the plugin instance, for example a top-level routes.ts. This is to avoid circular imports when you use the route references from other parts of the same plugin.

Route refs do not have any behavior themselves. They are an opaque value that represents route targets in an app, which are bound to specific paths at runtime. Their role is to provide a level of indirection to help link together different pages that otherwise wouldn't know how to route to each other.

### Providing Route References to Plugins

The previous section code snippet does not indicate which plugin the route belongs to. To do so, you have to use it in the creation of any kind of routable extension, such as a page extension:

> ```tsx title="plugins/catalog/src/plugin.tsx" {11,17-19} showLineNumbers

Author: Updated

import React from 'react';
import {
  createPlugin,
  createPageExtension,
} from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';
import { indexRouteRef } from './routes';

const catalogIndexPage = createPageExtension({
  // The `name` option is omitted because this is an index page
  defaultPath: '/entities',
  routeRef: indexRouteRef,
  loader: () => import('./components').then(m => <m.IndexPage />),
});

export default createPlugin({
  id: 'catalog',
  routes: {
    index: indexRouteRef,
  },
  extensions: [catalogIndexPage],
});
```

In the example above we have associated a route ref with an plugin page. This is what the code does:

- Line 11: Associates the `indexRouteRef` with the `catalogIndexPage` extension;

> - Line 17 to 19: Provides both the `indexRouteRef` and `catalogIndexPage` via the Catalog plugin.

Author: Updated

> **NOTE: The new frontend system is in a highly experimental phase**

## Introduction

This page describes the composability system that helps bring together content from a multitude of plugins into one Backstage application.

> The core principle of the composability system is that plugins should have clear boundaries and connections. It should isolate crashes within a plugin, but allow navigation between them. It should allow for plugins to be loaded only when needed, and enable plugins to provide extension points for other plugins to build upon. The composability system is also built with an app-first mindset, prioritizing simplicity and clarity in the app over that in the plugins and core APIs.

Author: Done 🙌🏻

```tsx
// plugins/catalog/src/routes.ts
import { createRouteRef } from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';

const rootRouteRef = createRouteRef(); // [1]

// plugins/catalog/src/plugin.tsx
import { createPlugin, createPageExtension } from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';
import { rootRouteRef } from './routes';

const rootPage = createPageExtension({ // [2]
  // Ommiting name since it is the root page
  defaultPath: '/'
  routeRef: rootRouteRef,
  loader: async () => <Page>Root Page</Page>
});

export default const createPlugin({ // [3]
  id: 'catalog',
  routes: {
    root: rootRouteRef,
  },
  extensions: [rootPage]
});

// plugins/catalog/src/index.ts
export { default } from './plugin'
```

We have completed our journey of creating a plugin page route. This is what the code does:

- [1] The line 1 creates a route reference, which is not yet associated with any plugin page;
- [2] A route that renders nothing makes no sense, does it? So we are creating a page extension that associates a path and a component with the newly created route ref;
- [3] Finally, our plugin provides both routes and extensions.

> It's a smart question, and the answer can be found in the (Binding External Route References)[#building-external-route-references] section, wait a bit, keep reading and you'll understand why.

Author: Fixed!

### Using a Route Reference

You can link to the routes from other pages in the same plugin or you can also link between different plugins pages. In this section we will cover the first scenario, if you are interested in link to a page of a plugin that isn't yours, please go to the [external routes](#external-router-references) section below.

Alright, let's presume that we have a plugin that renders tow different pages, and these pages links to each other.

First lets create the routes references:

```tsx
// plugins/catalog/src/routes.ts
import { createRouteRef } from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';

const rootRouteRef = createRouteRef();

type DetailsRouteParams = {
  namespace: string;
  name: string;
  kind: string;

> };

Author: Removed 🙌🏻

export const detailsRouteRef = createRouteRef<DetailsRouteParams>({
  // A list of parameter names that the path that this route ref is bound to must contain

>   params: ['namespace', 'name', 'kind'],

Author: Done 🙌🏻

});
```

Now we are ready to provide these routes via plugin extensions and link between pages:

```tsx
// plugins/catalog/src/plugin.tsx
import { createPlugin, createPageExtension, useRouteRef } from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';
import { rootRouteRef, detailsRouteRef } from './routes';

> const rootPage = createPageExtension({

Author: Renamed

>   // Ommiting name since it is the root page

Author: Removed

  defaultPath: '/'
  routeRef: rootRouteRef,

>   loader: async () => {

Author: Ops, not this particular one.
Tested now and fixed on the docs as well.

    const href = useRouteRef(catalogEntityDetailsRouteRef)({
      kind: 'Component',
      namespace: 'Default',
      name: 'foo'
    });

    return (
      <div>
        <h1>Index Page</h1>

>         <a href={href}>Entity Foo</a>

Author: Done 🙌🏻

      </div>
    );
  }
});

> const detailsPage = createPageExtension({

Author: Renamed

  name: 'details',

>   defaultPath: '/entities/:namespace/:kind/:name'

Author: Added a comment.

  routeRef: detailsRouteRef,
  loader: async () => (
    <div>
      <h1>Catalog Entities</h1>
    </div>

>   )

Author: Do you mind sharing why it is dangerous? I would appreciate that 🙂

We create a new ExternalRouteRef inside the Scaffolder plugin, using a neutral name that describes its role in the plugin rather than a specific plugin page that it might be linking to, allowing the app to decide the final target. If the Catalog entity list page for example wants to link the Scaffolder create component page in the header, it might declare an ExternalRouteRef similar to this:

```tsx
// plugins/catalog/src/routes.ts
import {
  createRouteRef,
  createExternalRouteRef,
} from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';

const rootRouteRef = createRouteRef();
const createComponentRouteRef = createExternalRouteRef();

// plugins/catalog/src/plugin.tsx
import { createPlugin, createPageExtension, useRouteRef } from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';
import { rootRouteRef, createComponentRouteRef } from './routes';

const rootPage = createPageExtension({
  // Ommiting name since it is the root page
  defaultPath: '/'
  routeRef: rootRouteRef,
  loader: async () => {
    const href = useRouteRef(catalogCreateComponentRouteRef)();

    return (
      <div>
        <h1>Catalog Entities</h1>
        {/* Linking to a create component page without direct reference */}

>         <a href={href}>Create Component</a>

Author: Got it! It also throws an error if the route is optional, so your suggestion is better as well for optional external routes. I just updated the docs 🙏🏻

      </div>
    );
  }
});

export default const createPlugin({
  id: 'catalog',
  routes: {
    entityList: entityListRouteRef
  }
  externalRoutes: {
    createComponent: createComponentRouteRef,
  },
  extensions: [rootPage]
});

// plugins/catalog/src/index.ts
export { default } from './plugin';
```

```tsx
// plugins/scaffolder/src/routes.ts
import { createRouteRef } from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';

> const createComponentRouteRef = createRouteRef();

Author: Fixed!

// plugins/scaffolder/src/plugin.tsx
import { createPlugin, createPageExtension } from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';
import { createComponentRouteRef } from './routes';

> const createComponentPage = createPageExtension({

Author: Renamed

### Binding External Route References

The association of external routes is controlled by the app. Each `ExternalRouteRef` of a plugin should be bound to an actual `RouteRef`, usually from another plugin. The binding process happens once at app startup, and is then used through the lifetime of the app to help resolve concrete route paths.

Using the above example of the Catalog entities list page to the Scaffolder create component page, we might do something like this in the app configuration file:

```yaml
# app-config.yaml
app:
  routes:
    bindings:
      plugin.catalog.externalRoutes.createComponent: plugin.scaffolfer.routes.createComponent
```

Or via code, in the file where the app is created:

```tsx
// packages/app/src/App.tsx
import { createApp } from '@backstage/frontend-app-api';
import catalog from '@backstage/plugin-catalog';
import scaffolder from '@backstage/plugin-scaffolder';

const app = createApp({
  bindRoutes({ bind }) {
    bind(catalog.externalRoutes, {
      createComponent: scaffolder.routes.createComponent,
    });
  },
});

export default app.createRoot();

// packages/app/src/index.ts
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client';
import app from './App';

> ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')!).render(app);

Reviewer: Tbh this bit feels a bit unnecessary, maybe just leave it at `createApp`?

Author: Removed

```

Given the above binding, using `useRouteRef(createComponentRouteRef)` within the Catalog plugin will let us create a link to whatever path the Scaffolder create component page is mounted at.

> Note that we are not importing and using the RouteRefs directly in the app, and instead rely on the plugin instance to access routes of the plugins. This is a new convention that was introduced to provide better namespacing and discoverability of routes, as well as reduce the number of separate exports from each plugin package. this his indirection in the routing is particularly useful for open source plugins that need to leave flexibility in how they are integrated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that we are not importing and using the `RouteRef`s directly in the app, and instead rely on the plugin instance to access routes of the plugins. This is a new convention that was introduced to provide better namespacing and discoverability of routes, as well as reduce the number of separate exports from each plugin package.
```

Removed duplicate of what's below

### Optional External Route References

When creating an ExternalRouteRef it is possible to mark it as optional:

```tsx
// plugins/catalog/src/routes.ts
import {
  createRouteRef,
  createExternalRouteRef,
} from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';

const rootRouteRef = createRouteRef();
const createComponentRouteRef = createExternalRouteRef({
  optional: true,
});
```

An external route that is marked as optional is not required to be bound in the app, allowing it to be used as a switch for whether a particular link should be displayed or action should be taken.

When calling useRouteRef with an optional external route, its return signature is changed to RouteFunc | undefined, allowing for logic like this:

> ```tsx

Reviewer: I think this example to be condensed down into just an example for usage within an individual component instead?

Author: Done 🙌🏻

// plugins/catalog/src/plugin.tsx
import { createPlugin, createPageExtension, useRouteRef } from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';
import { rootRouteRef, createComponentRouteRef } from './routes';

const catalogEntityListPage = createPageExtension({
  defaultPath: '/'
  routeRef: rootRouteRef,
  loader: async () => {

>     const href = useRouteRef(catalogCreateComponentRouteRef)();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    const href = useRouteRef(catalogCreateComponentRouteRef);
```

    return (
      <div>
        <h1>Catalog Entities</h1>
        {/* Since the route is optional, rendering the link only if the href is defined */}
        {href && <a to={href}>Create Component</a>
      </div>
    );
  }
});

export default const createPlugin({
  id: 'catalog',
  routes: {
    entityList: rootRouteRef
  }
  externalRoutes: {
    createComponent: createComponentRouteRef,
  },
  extensions: [catalogEntityListPage]
});

// index.ts
export { default } from './plugin';
```

## Sub Route References

> The last kind of route refs that can be created are `SubRouteRefs`, which can be used to create a route ref with a fixed path relative to an absolute `RouteRef`. They are useful if you have a page that internally is mounted at a sub route of a page extension component, and you want other plugins to be able to route to that page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last kind of route refs that can be created are `SubRouteRef`s, which can be used to create a route ref with a fixed path relative to an absolute `RouteRef`. They are useful if you have a page that internally is mounted at a sub route of a page extension component, and you want other plugins to be able to route to that page. And they can be a useful utility to handle routing within a plugin itself as well.
```

For example:

```tsx
// plugins/catalog/src/routes.ts
import {
  createRouteRef,
  createSubRouteRef
} from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';

const rootRouteRef = createRouteRef();
const detailsRouteRef = createSubRouteRef({
  parent: rootRouteRef,
  path: '/details',

> });

Reviewer: Perhaps we can weave another example SubRouteRef with params straight into this example? Since parameterized sub routes are a little bit different from the rest

Author: Done 🙌🏻

// plugins/catalog/src/plugin.ts
import { createPlugin, createPageExtension, useRouteRef } from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';
import { rootRouteRef, detailsRouteRef } from './routes.ts';

const DetailsPage = () => (
  <div>
    <h1>Entity Details</h1>
  </div>
);

const rootPage = createPageExtension({
  defaultPath: '/'
  routeRef: rootRouteRef,
  loader: async () => {
    const { path } = useRouteRef(detailsRouteRef)();

    return (
      <div>
        <h1>Index Page</h1>
        <Routes>

>           <Route path={path} element={<DetailsPage />} />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          <Route path={detailsRouteRef.path} element={<DetailsPage />} />
```

> **NOTE: The new frontend system is in alpha and is only supported by a small number of plugins.**

## Introduction

> This page describes the frontend system that helps bring together content from a multitude of plugins into one Backstage application.

Author: Removed this part

The core principle of the frontend system is that plugins should have clear boundaries and connections. It should isolate crashes within a plugin, but allow navigation between them. It should allow for plugins to be loaded only when needed, and enable plugins to provide extension points for other plugins to build upon. The frontend system is also built with an app-first mindset, prioritizing simplicity and clarity in the app over that in the plugins and core APIs.

> The frontend system isn't a single API surface. It is a collection of patterns, primitives, and APIs. At the core is the concept of extensions, which are exported by plugins for use in the app. One of the concepts is `RouteRef` which enables us route between pages in a flexible way, and it is especially important when bringing together different open source plugins.

Author: Done

The previous section code snippet does not indicate which plugin the route belongs to. To do so, you have to use it in the creation of any kind of routable extension, such as a page extension. When this extension is installed in the app it will become associated with the newly created `RouteRef`, making it possible to use the route ref to navigate the extension. Here's what we need to do:

```tsx
// plugins/catalog/src/routes.ts
import { createRouteRef } from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';

export const indexRouteRef = createRouteRef(); // [1]

// plugins/catalog/src/plugin.tsx
import React from 'react';
import {
  createPlugin,
  createPageExtension,
} from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';
import { indexRouteRef } from './routes';

// The `name` option is omitted since this is the index page
const catalogIndexPage = createPageExtension({
  // [2]
  defaultPath: '/entities',
  routeRef: indexRouteRef,
  // Promise.resolve is a replacement for `import(...)`

>   loader: () => Promise.resolve(<div>Index Page</div>),

Author: Using just import

Alright, let's presume that we have a plugin that renders two different pages, and these pages link to each other.

First lets create the routes references:

```tsx
// plugins/catalog/src/routes.ts
import { createRouteRef } from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';

export const indexRouteRef = createRouteRef();

export const detailsRouteRef = createRouteRef({
  // The parameters that must be included in the path of this route reference
  params: ['kind', 'namespace', 'name'],
});
```

Now we are ready to provide these routes via plugin extensions and link between pages:

```tsx
// plugins/catalog/src/plugin.tsx
import React from 'react';
import { useParams } from 'react-router';
import {
  createPlugin,
  createPageExtension,
  useRouteRef,
} from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';
import { rootRouteRef, detailsRouteRef } from './routes';

const catalogIndexPage = createPageExtension({
  defaultPath: '/entities',
  routeRef: indexRouteRef,

>   loader: () => {

Author: Not using this pattern anymore

    const Component = () => {
      const detailsLink = useRouteRef(detailsRouteRef);
      const detailsPath = detailsLink({
        kind: 'component',
        namespace: 'default',
        name: 'foo',
      });

      return (
        <div>
          <h1>Index Page</h1>
          <a href={detailsPath}>See details</a>
        </div>
      );
    };

>     return Promise.resolve(<Component />);

Author: Not using async or promise anymore, it was replaced with `import(...)`

  },
});

const catalogDetailsPage = createPageExtension({
  name: 'details',
  // It is important to mention here if an integrator configures a different path for this page via config file
  // It will be their responsibility to make sure that it contains the same parameters, although they don't necessarily need to be in the same order.
  defaultPath: '/entities/:namespace/:kind/:name',
  routeRef: detailsRouteRef,
  loader: () => {
    const Component = () => {
      // Getting the parameters from the URL

>       const params = useParams();

Author: Done

      return (
        <div>
          <h1>Details Page</h1>
          <ul>
            <li>Kind: {params.kind}</li>
            <li>Namespace: {params.namespace}</li>
            <li>Name: {params.name}</li>
          </ul>
        </div>
      );
    };

    return Promise.resolve(<Component />);
  },
});

export default createPlugin({
  id: 'catalog',
  routes: {
    index: indexRouteRef,
    details: detailsRouteRef,
  },
  extensions: [catalogIndexPage, catalogDetailsPage],
});

// plugins/catalog/src/index.ts

> export { default } from './plugin';

Author: Done

We create a new `RouteRef` inside the Scaffolder plugin, using a neutral name that describes its role in the plugin rather than a specific plugin page that it might be linking to, allowing the app to decide the final target. If the Catalog entity list page for example wants to link the Scaffolder create component page in the header, it might declare an `ExternalRouteRef` similar to this:

_Catalog Plugin_

```tsx
// plugins/catalog/src/routes.ts
import {
  createRouteRef,
  createExternalRouteRef,
} from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';

export const indexRouteRef = createRouteRef();
export const detailsRouteRef = createRouteRef({
  // The parameters that must be included in the path of this route reference
  params: ['kind', 'namespace', 'name'],

> });

Author: Done

      );
    };

    return Promise.resolve(<Component />);
  },
});

export default createPlugin({
  id: 'catalog',
  routes: {
    index: indexRouteRef,
    details: detailsRouteRef,
  },
  externalRoutes: {
    createComponent: createComponentRouteRef,
  },
  extensions: [catalogIndexPage, catalogDetailsPage],
});

// plugins/catalog/src/index.ts
export { default } from './plugin';
```

_Scaffolder Plugin_

```tsx
// plugins/scaffolder/src/routes.ts
import { createRouteRef } from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';

export const indexRouteRef = createRouteRef();

// plugins/scaffolder/src/plugin.tsx
import React from 'react';
import {
  createPlugin,
  createPageExtension,
} from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';
import { indexRouteRef } from './routes';

const scaffolderIndexPage = createPageExtension({
  defaultPath: '/create',
  routeRef: indexRouteRef,
  loader: () =>
    Promise.resolve(
      <div>
        <h1>Create Component</h1>
      </div>,
    ),
});

export default createPlugin({
  id: 'scaffolder',
  routes: {
    index: indexRouteRef,
  },
  extensions: [scaffolderIndexPage],
});

// plugins/scaffolder/src/index.ts
export { default } from './plugin';
```

> The Scaffolder plugin can also expose an external route that redirects to the Catalog entity details page whenever a new component is created, such as:

Author: Done

});

// plugins/scaffolder/src/plugin.tsx
import React from 'react';
import {
  createPlugin,
  createPageExtension,
  useRouteRef,
} from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';
import { indexRouteRef, componentDetailsExternalRouteRef } from './routes';

const scaffolderIndexPage = createPageExtension({
  defaultPath: '/create',
  routeRef: indexRouteRef,
  loader: () => {
    const Component = () => {
      const componentDetailsLink = useRouteRef(
        componentDetailsExternalRouteRef,
      );

      return (
        <div>
          <h1>Create Component</h1>
          <a
            href={componentDetailsLink({
              kind: 'component',
              namespace: 'default',
              name: 'foo',
            })}
          >
            See component details
          </a>
        </div>
      );
    };

    return Promise.resolve(<Component />);
  },
});

export default createPlugin({
  id: 'scaffolder',
  routes: {
    index: indexRouteRef,
  },
  externalRoutes: {
    componentDetails: componentDetailsExternalRouteRef,
  },
  extensions: [scaffolderIndexPage],
});

// plugins/scaffolder/src/index.ts
export { default } from './plugin';
```

> Note that external routes can also have path parameters!

Author: Done

```tsx
// plugins/catalog/src/routes.ts
import {
  createRouteRef,
  createExternalRouteRef,
} from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';

export const indexRouteRef = createRouteRef();
export const createComponentRouteRef = createExternalRouteRef({
  optional: true,
});

// plugins/catalog/src/plugin.tsx
import React from 'react';
import {
  createPlugin,
  createPageExtension,
  useRouteRef,
} from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';
import { indexRouteRef, createComponentRouteRef } from './routes';

const catalogIndexPage = createPageExtension({
  defaultPath: '/entities',
  routeRef: indexRouteRef,
  loader: () => {
    const Component = () => {
      const createComponentLink = useRouteRef(createComponentRouteRef);

      return (
        <div>
          <h1>Index Page</h1>
          {/* Since the route is optional, rendering the link only if the href is defined */}

>           {link && <a href={createComponentLink()}>Create Component</a>}

Author: Done

For example:

```tsx
// plugins/catalog/src/routes.ts
import {
  createRouteRef,
  createSubRouteRef,
} from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';

export const indexRouteRef = createRouteRef();
export const detailsSubRouteRef = createSubRouteRef({
  parent: indexRouteRef,
  path: '/details',
});

// plugins/catalog/src/plugin.ts
import React from 'react';
import { Routes, Route, useLocation } from 'react-router-dom';
import {
  createPlugin,
  createPageExtension,
  useRouteRef,
} from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';
import { indexRouteRef, detailsSubRouteRef } from './routes.ts';

const DetailsPage = () => (
  <div>
    <h1>Details Sub Page</h1>
  </div>
);

const catalogIndexPage = createPageExtension({
  defaultPath: '/entities',
  routeRef: indexRouteRef,
  loader: () => {
    const Component = () => {

>       const { pathname } = useLocation();

Author: Done.

      return (
        <div>
          <h1>Index Page</h1>
          {/* Linking to the index route */}
          {pathname === detailsLink() && <a href={indexLink()}>Hide details</a>}
          {/* Linking to the details sub route */}
          {pathname === indexLink() && <a href={detailsLink()}>Show details</a>}
          {/* Registering the details sub route */}
          <Routes>
            <Route path={detailsSubRouteRef.path} element={<DetailsPage />} />
          </Routes>
        </div>
      );
    };

    return Promise.resolve(<Component />);
  },
});

export default createPlugin({
  id: 'catalog',
  routes: {
    index: indexRouteRef,
    details: detailsSubRouteRef,
  },
  extensions: [catalogIndexPage],
});

// plugins/catalog/src/index.ts
export { default } from './plugin';
```

Subroutes can also receive parameters, here is an example:

```tsx
// plugins/catalog/src/routes.ts
import {
  createRouteRef,
  createSubRouteRef,
} from '@backstage/frontend-plugin-api';

export const indexRouteRef = createRouteRef();
export const detailsSubRouteRef = createSubRouteRef({
  parent: indexRouteRef,
  path: '/:name/:namespace/:kind',

> });

Author: Done
